>> Steve Kinney: Like I said before,
there are some things to think about
when it comes to using Tailwind.
Knowing what we know about the fact that
it's ripping through all these files and
figuring out what classes you
are using and not using, which.
Is it important that you understand
every nuance on how Oxide does it?
Absolutely not.
Is it like important that you
understand the three sentence version?
Yes, which is.
Imagine that it is not
particularly complicated,
which is it's not loading up
a language server like Typescript and
reasoning about everything.
It is basically,
it's effectively in earlier
versions of Tailwind, this is true.
It's less true now, but spiritually,
as far as the mental model works,
which is imagine it's just using a regex
on every text file in your code base.
Bye.
>> Speaker 2: Does the idea of Tailwind
treating files as plain text mean
that I could have a class name
stored in a JavaScript or
TypeScript variable and
tailwind would pick that up?
>> Steve Kinney: Yes,
as long as you have the whole class name,
which we'll talk about in a second.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> Steve Kinney: If you try to get clever,
and I think it's on the next slide or
one after that.
If you try to get clever with
template strings and concatenation.
No, right?
Because it doesn't reason about your code,
it's just literally looking
in somewhere in these files.
Did they say BG Blue 600?
Yes.
So yeah, it goes through all your files,
It's not doing anything.
It's just looking at the text, it's just
looking for the classes it knows about.
And we'll talk about how
to customize Tailwind.
Built into Tailwind, there are colors,
there are spacing, there are fonts.
But it is not like the days
of Bootstrap where you knew,
you knew if a page was
made with bootstrap.
There's default colors, there's
default spacing, there's default font.
Everything in Tailwind is customizable.
Right and we'll look at how to do that in
a little bit and that changes what then
the build tooling looks for
as it rips through all the files.
But basically once it gets a sense
of what the tokens based on
how you've tweaked it and
customized it, are it.
It goes through everything.
Yeah, just simple string
matching the whole way through.
It does ignore some files.
It ignores the files you think it ignores,
right?
It ignores the files that everything
ignores, like things in Git ignore.
CSS files will get ignored because they
are going through the build process
themselves.
And that's where Vite or webpack or what
have you works and obviously lock files.
Yeah, it ignores the files
you think it ignores.
Most tooling happens to ignore.
And so as I alluded to with
Mike just a second ago,
if you try to get clever,
the chances of you messing it up are high.
So if you think you're smart, just try
to do the simplest possible thing.
And so if you are trying to say,
I want to do a template string and
inject that color, well,
now it's not going to find it.
However, if you say like Const success
equals BG green 400 const error.
As long as the full string is
even in your JavaScript, and
your HTML file is somewhere, it counts.
But it can't try to then run your code and
dedupe everything at this moment.
So yeah, if you are going to
mention a class, go all the way.
Mention it in full.
And I will say this.
Cause we're gonna spend
a bunch of hours together.
It could happen to me at some point.
It will happen to you at some point.
If you don't see the style, like you're
like, I did it and it's not happening,
that's the first thing.
Did it get stripped out for
some reason, right?
Like that is the first thing
your brain should go to.
Did I try to concatenate strings?
Did I try to do something?
And there are ways to navigate this.
Cause sometimes you don't have all
of the markup in your code base.
Not always.
But like if you are pulling in something
from a third party library and
they're putting the classes there,
you might have to tell tailwind to like
allow list or safe list certain classes.
And that's all doable,
but also really esoteric.
Right?
Unless it's coming from some other place.
Generally speaking, as long as you follow
the I didn't try to use a template string
or concatenate my way to a class.
You're probably good.
Cool.
There are plugins.
Plugins are actually
written in JavaScript, but
you can import them via CSS.
These are just using CSS functions and
directives to pull in
additional functionality.
You can also pull in a given font.
This is literally from
my own site's CSS file.
Yeah, so
you can pull in stuff along those lines.
We talked about allow listing.
So let's say you are pulling in some
other component that you're loading
from somewhere else.
You'd be like,
wouldn't that involve directly injecting.
Dangerous.
Whatever.
I don't make the rules.
We all know that some of us have weird
parts of our code bases because of legacy
reasons.
You can also say like, hey,
do not strip this out, right?
And in this case it will like keep that
class in there even if it doesn't find it
in the code base.
If you are then loading
it from somewhere else.